[THEME MUSIC]
>>Hi.
Welcome back.
We're in the second-last episode
of the Ubuntu contributions
and workshop.
And I'd just like to recap
on some of the points
we ended off with
in the last episode,
and that is some of the
important considerations, just
a few bullet points.
Transitional phase
versus final destination.
It's important that we can't go
from zero to hero in one step.
And it's going to
take several steps.
It could take many
steps to get us
from where we are today
to these beautiful united
communities of abundance.
That doesn't necessarily mean
it's going to take a long time.
It could take
very, very quickly.
It could happen overnight if
certain things fall into place.
And I believe that we can make
those things fall into place
by simply working together and
realizing what we have to do
and going out
there and doing it.
And I guess this is what we're
discussing here and sharing
that information.
And the more people
know about this,
the easier it is for them to
go out there and implement
this in their own
communities and start
to get as many
people as possible
to start thinking along these
lines in your own communities
and as I always say, become
the seed of consciousness
in your own community
and infect everyone else
with this simple idea and
plan of action and unity
consciousness that
we're moving towards.
So final destination is
possibly not that far away.
And the effect on
neighboring towns,
that we discussed as
well, is the moment
we have one of
these little towns
and this community that works
on this principle of abundance,
the effect and the
resonant effect
it'll have on all
the neighboring towns
is unimaginable to us.
The pressure that
will be imposed
on the mayors and the leaders
of the neighboring towns
and communities we
can't even begin
to quantify from this
position right now.
All we know is that it
will be unstoppable,
because once one
community operates
on this very simple
principle of abundance,
it is not going to
be possible to stop
the others from adopting
that same principle
and the same philosophy.
Everything changes when you
remove the money, everything
in our reality.
And this is something
that we-- it's actually
a good point of
departure to answer
the questions, the many
questions that people come up
with, the 13 or
whatever frequently
asked questions is
start from the premise
that everything changes.
And we have to ask
ourselves, whatever
question it is that
people throw at you--
and we're going to end
off this whole series
with those questions again and
throw other questions that we
come up with here in the
studio and see how easily we
can solve any problem.
There is no problem
that cannot be solved,
because it's a
self-correcting system.
It always corrects itself
for the best outcome
of the community.
And that's why we can
solve all the problems.
It's not complicated.
It's very simple.
So the way we can approach these
questions when they come up
is to rather ask a
question in return.
How will this work in
a world without money?
So when people say, well, what's
going to happen to education?
The question is, well, will
we have schools the way
we have schools today?
Or if people say, what's going
to happen to cars in a world
without money?
And the question
is, well, well we
drive the cars we drive today?
Will we still use petrol
the way we use petrol today?
And so it goes.
Will we need roads the
way we have roads today?
And the answer to do
that is no, we're not,
because that's going to change.
We're not going to use the cars
in the way we use cars today.
Transportation will
change completely.
Will we have airplanes using the
same technology we use today?
The answer to that is, most
likely not, most probably not,
most definitely not, because
if we set our scientists free,
that technology is going to be
replaced very, very quickly.
And that applies to every
aspect of our lives.
And the moment you remove
money, those questions
can be solved very quickly.
Then we get to this
Labor Of Love, the LOL.
Remember, in a
world without money,
there are no jobs,
because you're now
fulfilling your life purpose.
You're giving expression
to your creative needs
and what drives you from within.
So we call it a labor of love
and not a job or your life work
that you choose to do.
Whatever it is that
you choose to do,
whether you're a shoemaker
or a rocket scientist
or a sculptor or a
chemical engineer
or a baker, whatever
it is-- or you
breed horses for your
community, whatever
it is that you love
to do will ultimately
become part of your community
and serve your community
in some way.
So sooner or later, whatever
it is you choose to do
will most likely become
a community project.
And that's one of the most
amazing things to realize,
how what you do actually
affects and impacts and benefits
everyone in your community.
And this is why it's a
one-to-many exchange.
It's not a bartering
or trading system.
It is a one-to-many exchange
so everybody benefits
from everything
that everybody does.
Then the council
of elders, we've
discussed how important
it is to implement
the council of elders.
So this is the guiding body,
the body of wise people
that are appointed
from the community that
guide and govern and advise
the community what's best.
So if I come up
with an idea, wow,
I want to build a foofy
slide from the mountain down
to my garden and I want
everybody to help me build it,
the council of elders will
probably say, listen, Michael,
you're a nice guy, but if we're
going to build a foofy slide,
let's not build
it to your garden.
Let's build a foofy
slide from the top
of the mountain to
the park so everybody
can use the foofy
slide and not just you,
because these kind of
things will happen.
So I'm using a silly
example, but to show you
how easily these things can be
solved, because, yes, people
will still want to do
things for their own benefit
while we're getting
over this sharing thing
and we don't really do
things for ourselves anymore.
Of course, your home
will be your home.
Your furniture will
be your choice.
The kind of clothes you
wear will be your clothes.
And everything is made for you.
It's custom made for you
because that's how it works.
You're not going to go into a
shop and get it off the shelf,
because we're not
going to have shops
where things sit getting ready
waiting for people to buy them.
That no longer exists, so that
changes when you take money out
of the system.
The way we shop, the
way we get things, well,
we're not going to be shopping,
but how we get and attain
things changes completely.
That's where the council of
elders comes in and guides
and make sure that people
don't abuse the system
for their own personal benefit.
And then the minority
rule principle
is important to consider, where
all the minorities, no matter
how small the group
of individuals
may be, because
they're performing
an important task
or important support
or anything for the community,
they need to be supported.
They need to be given all the
tools, the scientific research.
Whatever it is
you're doing, you'll
be given-- if you're doing this
and it benefits the community.
Then the one thing
we didn't touch upon
is the lone ranger, because
not everybody is going
to want to live in a community.
What if you want to go
and live out on your own
somewhere on a farm
in the mountains?
Then that's what
you're going to do.
But again, things are now
going to change, because today
when people are out on farms,
they often farm things, right?
They either farm
cattle or huge tracts
of land of maize or whatever.
Well, that's no longer
going to happen,
because you're not going
to be able to sell that.
Why?
You're going to have 400 cows.
It's a lot of work to
look after 400 cows.
And you're not going to
have people helping you,
because you're not going to
be paying them to help you.
So that whole thing changes.
So you're going to do
and occupy as much land
as you need to serve your
community, your community that
belongs to your family.
So if you have a family of
five or six or 10 people,
then you're probably going
to only use up so much space
that you need to serve your
community on your little piece
of land wherever that may be.
So you're not going to
grow 20 acres of maize,
because you're not going to
need that and it's too much.
What are you going to
do with the rest of it?
You can't eat all of it.
You can't sell it to anybody.
See how that changes?
So the Lone Ranger aspect
is a very exciting part
of this evolution
and how this works.
So you can go and
live out on your own,
but sooner or later, you're
going to probably interact
with the closest community.
And you're going to go
in there once a week
and perform some task
for that community
so you can benefit from whatever
that community is doing.
And then you can carry on
living as a lone ranger,
because you don't like company.
You want to be on your own.
And then you have the benefits
and the best of both worlds.
And nobody's going
to mess with you,
because you're not taking
up unnecessary space.
You're not claiming all
this land and saying,
this is my land,
get off my land,
because you don't need to
have 400 cows so you've
got security for the future.
You don't need to
grow all this food,
because you've got
all the food you need,
because you're still part
of the nearest community.
You can choose not to do that.
But that's just going to make
it more difficult for yourself.
So it's a lot better just to
participate in the closest
community activity and then
have the benefits of all
that community produces.
So the Lone Ranger thing
I find quite exciting.
And it's a great
example to show how
things change for the
benefit of those that choose
to live out on their own.
And again, remember that land
ownership flies out the window.
There is no land ownership.
People use land and
space based on what
it is they're doing
for the community.
So if you're a shoemaker, you
don't need 100 acres of land,
right?
But if you're participating in
growing food for the community,
that changes.
Then you will use
as much land as it
takes to grow the food
for the community.
You're not going to use
less or more, because we
know how much food we're going
to grow, so that's how much
land we use.
So this whole thing of
ownership of land and I've
got all this land belongs to me,
me, me, that no longer exists.
And if you want to move
from this town to that town,
then that's what
you do, because you
choose to move to
another community
because you've had enough living
in the mountains and the snow.
You want to go and live near the
beach where the coconuts grow.
That's your choice.
And when you arrive there,
they welcome you with open arms
and you plug into this community
and you get a beautiful place
to live.
Or if there is no house
for you to live in,
then you have one
built for yourself,
because that's what the
builders and the architects do.
They design your home
based on what you like
and what you want.
Obviously, there
are restrictions.
They're not going to
build a 20-room mansion up
on the mountain, because you
have to clean your house.
So again, all of
that kicks in, right?
So why do you want
a 20-room mansion?
Today, people have 20-room
mansions because it's value,
perceived value.
It's worth a lot more
than a little small room.
Well, you see how quickly
people's perception
change when they no longer
see it as something of value
that they could sell
to make some money
to have a retirement.
Everything changes.
I want to live in a
mud hut on the beach.
That's my personal wish.
I want to live in the land
of the low-hanging fruits
in a mud hut near the
beach, where I can just
live in warm climates.
I don't like the
cold climate at all.
And that's another thing
that people ask you.
People say-- often they
use it as an argument,
say, well, everybody's going
to want to live on the beach.
Really?
No.
You might want to
live on the beach.
But I know that
him, her, and her,
they want to live
on the mountains,
because they like snowboarding.
They want to live
where the snow is.
They don't want to live
anywhere near the beach.
And some people like the rivers.
Some people like the desert.
There are as many preferences
as there are people.
So this whole notion
that everybody
wants to live on a beach is
another capitalistic poisoning
of our minds how we've
been completely baffled
by the system that we've
grown into or born into.
Finally on this
important considerations
list is this whole process is
a process of no confrontation.
We don't have to
confront anybody.
We don't have to oppose anybody.
We don't have to take up arms
against anybody or get violent.
All we do is we just create
this new alternative.
And the moment we create
this new alternative,
we've started a chain reaction
that can no longer be stopped.
We don't have to confront or
fight or argue with anybody
or convince any
government of anything.
Just create a new path
for ourselves, a new path
away from the global control.
And that brings us to one of
the foundations of our poisoned
society, and that is education.
And this really is one
of my favorite subjects,
because this is where you really
start seeing how quickly we can
convert our society and
our children into really
well-balanced individuals,
well integrated into
their communities,
that truly start
adding to the well-being
of their community
from the earliest of ages.
So all the community
projects that we
have that you're going
to participate in,
they're actually going to
become the new education system.
You can imagine after a while--
and not only for the adults,
for the children as well.
So what we propose with
the Ubuntu philosophy
is that there are
really no schools.
It's complete unschooling
and unlearning and learning
hands-on, experiential
learning skills for life
from the earliest of age.
Of course, there are going
to be gatherings of children,
and teachers who are really--
who love teaching, who
know the art of
teaching, that understand
that play and interaction
with children is critical.
As Plato said, without the
element of play and games,
children really
don't learn much.
So we need to implement this.
And there are master teachers
that really understand
how to bring this forth
and how to bring out
the best in the
children in this kind
of interactive, participatory
way of teaching and learning
real skills for life.
But let's start with
the adults first.
First of all, if
you're participating
in these community
projects, and it's
from bakery to engineering
to chemicals to new materials
development to technology
to rocket science
to growing food to
purifying water,
you're going to be active in
all these community projects.
Sooner or later, you're going
to go and work in those areas.
Within a few years, the people
of our town and our community
will be so well trained
and so well informed
in all these areas, far
more hands-on knowledge
and hands-on
experience, we'll be
able to do everything
and anything,
because we've actually done it.
You've assisted or
worked in these areas.
You'll know how to bake
bread, how to make cheese,
how to build a rocket,
how to milk a cow.
I recently milked a cow.
It's first time that I
milked a cow in years.
It was such an
amazing experience.
It was like wow.
And I know that some people
have a problem with that,
but that's another
discussion altogether.
The animals, what happens to
vegetarianism and all that?
It's all part of the
growth of consciousness.
So let's put it out
there and say, yes, it
is something that is considered.
It is a very important
subject matter.
But it is part of the growth
of this unity consciousness
that we start to
growing into realizing
in our own personal
capacity, start
growing into that awareness.
And sooner or later, you'll
get to the point you'll say,
I can no longer drink
milk from a cow,
when the time is right for you.
We can't force that on anybody.
We can't force people
to be vegetarians.
It's part of our
individual growth
of consciousness that
becomes-- hopefully
will speed up as this
philosophy comes into fruition.
So what this really means is
that the sooner we implement
the community
projects, the sooner we
start creating a
really well integrated
and a united community of well
informed and highly skilled
people that know how to
do everything and have
no fear of anything
because they participate
in all this activity.
And the teachers, the masters
of the different areas
of the projects, whether it's
the baker or the engineer
or the rocket scientist or
the farmer or the anything,
clearly we're going to have
the best people in charge
of those areas.
We're not just going
to put somebody
who doesn't know
how to grow food
or how to build bridges
in charge of that area.
So we're going to have
the best people possible.
Those individuals ultimately
become the master teachers
in the community of
that specific subject.
Think about our current
education system.
And this is with all due
respect to the teachers
out there, because I know
that many of the teachers that
go out there
actually go out there
with a passion for teaching
and the love of teaching
and sharing knowledge.
But unfortunately they get
caught up in the system
and they are forced
to teach in a way
that they don't
necessarily want to teach.
But how could you
possibly call yourself
a teacher unless you are a
master of what is that you do?
If you don't know
how to bake, how
can you teach
someone else to bake
from a textbook in a classroom?
It doesn't work, does it?
If you don't know how
to build a bridge,
how could you tell somebody in
theory how to build a bridge?
So this is why I believe that
we don't need classrooms.
Hands-on experience
is far more important
that teaches us real skills for
life, not theoretical knowledge
or information.
There is no such
thing as failure.
This whole concept
of failing an exam
is just another example
how the fear tactics
and the fear-mongering
is imposed on our society
and on our children from
the earliest of ages.
The fear of failing an exam,
failing and not moving on
in life, how is that possible?
You're a living,
breathing human being.
You're already alive.
How can you fail?
We can't fail.
We choose to do
things we love to do.
And when you choose to do what
you love to do, how could you
possibly fail?
The only reason we
fail is because we're
forced to do things
we don't love to do.
And then they use
our lack of resonance
with what we're forced to do as
an expression that you failed,
because look how badly
you've done this.
So that all flies
out the window.
No longer do we see
ourselves as failures
in any sense whatsoever.
And that changes the
whole energetic structure
of our society and our
community very quickly.
So practical knowledge, we've
already spoken about the jobs,
that there are no jobs.
They're really labors of love.
And that leads us to
the fact that whatever
it is for your
community-- and somebody
brought this up earlier.
If you do something
for your community
that benefits the
community, that's
what you are known for
and respected and loved
and cherished, because
everybody knows
that Michael is the guy
that bakes the best bread.
And they love you for it,
because they love your bread,
or they love the way
that you make shoes
or whatever it is that you do.
You're respected because
of what you contribute
to your community, not because
how much money you have
or how many people you
employ and give them
the illusion of
security, you know,
because that's why I said
today the respect we carry
in our society today is
actually a completely
misguided sense of respect.
It's more of a fear-based
kind of gratitude.
Thank god this guy's
giving us a job.
We really respect you for that.
No.
That's not respect.
That's a fear-based
kind of servitude.
So this really causes a rapid
rise in unity consciousness
as people pursue their
passions, because out
of 168 hours in
a week, you still
have 165 hours to
do what you love.
What are you going to do
with all that time, right?
And this is where it
really starts to-- wow.
Today we work like slaves
just to stay alive.
With this kind of system,
three hours a week
in the community
project, what I find
and what many people seem to
believe is that most of us
will probably work a lot
more than three hours a week
in the community projects.
>>I was just thinking that.
>>Because you're going to
find something you love.
Like you might-- because
of the different things
that you're now
exposed to, you're
going to suddenly find that you
love the chemical engineering
part.
And you'll say,
well, listen, I want
to spend more time
in the chemistry lab,
because I love this stuff
and I'll get some ideas
about developing new materials.
And they're going to say,
yeah, sure, great, what
are your ideas, because
that's how it works.
No.
Sorry.
You're an idiot.
Go away.
No.
They'll invite you in
and say, all right.
What are you thinking?
What should we try?
And experiment, because
that's what this is all about,
learning through
experimentation,
playing, because that's the
opportunity that you have.
And it's all there for you
presented by the community.
So it really explodes
with possibility.
You decided that you
love breeding fish
and you just have
a knack for this.
And to breed the fish
better and quicker,
we're going to need
highly oxygenated water.
So then we're going to need the
scientists and the guys that
know how to energize and
oxygenate water naturally
from the streams
and the rivers that
feed through our fish farm.
And suddenly, our fish
grow three times as quickly
and they taste
better and they look
better for those that want to
breed koi fish not necessarily
fish to eat.
Everything becomes possible.
So everything becomes
a community project.
And here's an
interesting example.
I'm a painter.
I paint beautiful paintings.
And I get my canvases
from the guys
that create canvases
in town for free.
Isn't that amazing?
And normally they'd cost
you a bloody fortune,
to buy a canvas these days.
And the paintbrushes are
real wooden paintbrushes
with real horsehair.
And today, that's
very, very expensive.
And my paintbrushes
are prepared for me
by the guys that make
paintbrushes in my town.
And I use this,
this is my hobby.
This is my labor of love,
what I do for myself.
So I start to paint, and I
make these beautiful paintings.
And suddenly people start
coming to me saying,
Michael, wow, we really
love your painting.
Can you paint me a picture
of that mountain over there?
I say sure.
And I'll paint a
beautiful picture
of the mountain for John.
And John takes it and
everyone goes, wow,
John, that's amazing.
Who did that?
Michael did that.
Oh, wow.
Michael, can you do that--
And suddenly before
you know, people
are coming to you
from your town saying,
can you do this painting
and that painting?
And then suddenly
people say, Michael,
you're the best painter in town.
Can you teach our
children how to paint?
And automatically, people
gravitate towards you
to teach them how to paint.
So at some stage, the council
of elders will call you in
and say, Michael, everybody
loves you as a painter.
Do you want to take on
the role as the master
painter of our community?
And then you have a choice
to say either yes or no,
because it's your choice.
You're not forced into it.
And if you take on
that choice, then you
become the master painter.
But you know what?
You've already become
the master painter.
Whether you accept it or not,
the people have chosen you.
It's just that the
council of elders
will give you I guess the
platform to say, look,
we acknowledge you
as the master painter
more than anything else.
And suddenly, before you
know, you say, well, look,
you no longer have to do three
hours a week in the community
project, because everybody
needs to come to you
as your paint workshop is now
the new community project,
because everybody's coming
to you to learn how to paint.
And now you need
the actual paint,
so that comes from the
chemists in the lab that
are creating the paint for you.
But the paint is
biodegradable, nontoxic,
and you get multiple
colors, far more
than you get from the
current laboratories that
make the poisonous paint.
And everything that you get is
made out of the best materials
and it's nontoxic and
biodegradable and free,
because you get it because
you're part of the community.
And if you don't get
the paint, then you
go to the chemists
in the chemical lab,
and say, listen, I need
the following colors
for my paint shop.
And they create it for you,
because that's what they do.
Can you see how simple
and integrated this?
It's insane that
anything else is actually
been allowed to rise and
consume our lives, anything
other than this kind of way
of thinking and philosophy.
So when I say everything
becomes a community project,
I hope that it's now
making more sense
and that it's easy to comprehend
that kind of statement
and how that expands
the community projects.
Suddenly we're going
to need to create
more paint, for not
just painting houses,
but for artists.
And we're going to need to
create different kind of clays
for the sculptors and materials
with which they sculpt.
And it might not just be clay.
It might be a graphene kind
of material mixed with hemp
or whatever that is
moldable and biodegradable
and is far stronger
and doesn't break.
So our needs for materials
will change totally.
So this brings us to
another consideration,
and that is, how do
we invite and include
existing businesses and
companies and factories
and industry to participate
in this creation of abundance?
And this is really
a beautiful example
that demonstrates how
inclusive this philosophy
of Contributionism is.
It does not exclude anyone.
It always invites
everyone to participate
in this abundance creation.
So I'm going to use an
example of a little factory
that we have in our town.
They make door windows and--
wooden doors and windows.
So what we do is
we invite everybody
to participate in becoming
a community project.
And normally, the
question is-- first
an immediate question is, well,
what's in it for me, right?
So the answer is very simple.
You already know what
the answer is, right?
What's in it for you
as a factory owner is
free electricity; no rent; no
rates and taxes; free labor,
because now that you're part
of the community project,
people will be allocated
to come and work
in your factory; free
wood, because you'll
get the wood from our sawmill,
because the sawmill is
a community project;
free glue, because you'll
get the glue from our
chemical laboratory that's
going to be better and stronger,
nontoxic and biodegradable glue
that you can't afford today.
And any other components that
you need for your factory
will be provided for you.
So that's what's in it for you.
And all you have to do
in return is manage that,
be the master carpenter, and
teach the people what to do.
And in return, you retain
1/3 of the profits and 2/3
go back to the community.
And guess what people say
when you approach them
with this, whether they're
farmers, whether they're
factory owners, doesn't
matter what field of work
they come from, the
answer is always the same.
When can we start?
You don't even
enter a negotiation,
because suddenly
they've got no cost
and you're offering
them all the stuff,
the expertise that they
can't afford today.
And they retain
1/3 of the profits?
It's a no-brainer, right?
So this is how beautiful
and elegant this system is,
and how you invite everybody
into your community.
And this is why whether
it's computer geeks building
supercomputers or any kind
of manufacturing, research,
or industry that's
doing things, people
will start to come
to your community
and say, can I make my
business and my factory
part of your community projects,
because suddenly they'll
realize that it's a
huge benefit to them.
So our town will
become like this magnet
for creativity, for
imagining stuff,
for arts and culture,
for-- can you
imagine the halls and
the musical instruments
and the sound systems that
we're going to have in our town?
Better than any small town
could possibly afford.
It just never stops.
The benefits are never-ending.
And this is how we grow and
expand this very, very quickly,
and becomes unstoppable once you
start and you plant the seed.
And now we get to the
very exciting part
of how this abundance spreads
not just beyond our town,
but beyond our borders, and how
it allows us to not only travel
within our own countries,
but travel internationally
and really ground this
and land this philosophy
all over the world.
And I call it the Ubuntu
warehouses and the creating
of alternative currencies.
This is what happens.
From all these projects that we
do, from growing food, building
supercomputers, furniture,
whatever it is that we do,
clothing, shoes,
anything you can imagine,
we're going to be creating
so much in our little town
and then the neighboring
towns around us as they start
joining us, we're
not always going
to be able to sell the stuff.
So what are we going to
do the rest of the stuff?
We're going to have
to put it somewhere.
We can't just leave
it lying in the fields
or in somebody's house.
So we're going to have
to put it somewhere,
so we're going to
create these warehouses
and I call them the
Ubuntu warehouses.
Think of it as like
a Walmart, but it
belongs to the community.
So everything we do
and create and build
goes into the Ubuntu
Walmart warehouse.
And suddenly, we've just
created our own little warehouse
full of incredible stuff
that belongs to us.
Nobody can take it away from us.
We don't owe anybody
money for it.
It belongs to us
and our community.
Now, because of
the system that you
don't want to keep stuff
because you don't need to,
all the stuff in the warehouse
is available to all the people
that participate.
And we'll probably, in the
initial stages I guess,
have to create some sort of
a card, like an Ubuntu card,
and electronic card.
It's not really money.
It's just your
benefit to get what
is allocated to
you from what we've
allocated to ourselves, right?
So it's not I'll add
less than him or her.
We've allocated
this to ourselves.
We sit and decide how much
maize we're going to grow
and how many potatoes
we're going to grow, right?
So we know how much you're
entitled to every week.
And this is why I said
earlier, keep that in mind.
We grow at least three times
as much as what we need
and build and do-- always
create three times as much
as what we need in
every area of activity.
So you can't just pull up a
truck in front of the Ubuntu
warehouse and fill it
up, because that's not
how it works.
And you're not going
to want to do that.
Well, what are you
going to do it?
What, are you going to sell it?
No.
You're not going to sell
it, because you don't really
want the money.
You don't need the money,
so that notion also
flies out the window, right?
This card just really--
in the beginning,
in the transitional phases,
so you take your Ubuntu card
and every week or every month
you can go to the warehouse
and swipe it and get
whatever you need.
But what this does is by
creating the warehouse,
we just created a new
supply of goods and services
that belongs to us.
And we've simply bypassed
the current existing
supply of the Walmarts
and the supermarkets that
are selling us
goods that are made
in sweat factories in
China, exploiting people.
We've completely
bypassed and created
a new supply chain
that comes from us,
from our labor of love,
from our technology.
That's available to all of us.
Nobody can come take
the stuff away from us,
because it belongs to us.
And we've created a new
alternative currency system
that is not based on money.
You don't have a bank
account, so the bank
can't close your
account and prevent
you access to the things
that you're entitled to.
In one very short period, we can
create this new supply of all
our goods and services
completely away from
the current global supply and
the alternative currency that
nobody can undermine, cannot
close, cannot collapse.
The Rothschilds, the banking
families of the world
have no access to that.
There is no money in your card.
They can't take your
money away from you.
And this is a huge, huge
hurdle that we've just
crossed, the biggest hurdle
that currently prevents us
from getting anywhere,
because it's always
a lack of money, a lack of
funds of doing anything.
And then what happens
is you live in Boulder
and you're part of the
community, the Ubuntu
community here that's
creating this abundance.
And everyone's happy.
You've got everything you need.
And you say, well, I want to go
visit my buddy in Los Angeles.
I want to go live in
LA for a few months.
And you get all the money that
you make from the community
projects, because we still
live in a capitalistic world
right now, so to
get from here to LA,
you might still have to use
this transportation that
still costs money, right?
That's going to fly out
the window soon as well.
But in the meantime,
you're still
going to have to buy a
ticket, an airplane ticket
and fly to LA.
So you take all
this money that's
now sitting in the community
account or your own account
somewhere and you buy a
ticket and you fly to LA.
And you get off the plane and
you go to your Ubuntu community
there and you say, hi.
My name's Michael.
I've come to stay here
for the next six months.
I want to enjoy the
sun and the beach.
And they say, welcome, Michael.
Just swipe your card.
So thanks very much, welcome
to our Ubuntu community,
and choose where
you want to live.
And they show you a bunch of
places where you want to live.
You can choose from where
you live, either on the beach
or up on the mountain
based on what you like,
or in the desert.
And then they say, right.
So this week they need some
help in the chemistry lab
or they need some help with
gathering potatoes in the field
or they need help in grooming
the horses in the horse farm,
and please report at 3
o'clock on Thursday afternoon
to go help them
groom the horses,
and that's your
chore for this week.
And because you've done
that community project
or that community service, you
can go to the Ubuntu warehouse
in Los Angeles and get whatever
you need for that week.
So not only have you created
an alternative currency
in your own town, in
your own community,
you've created an alternative
currency in between towns
and communities.
And then it gets even better.
Then you've had enough of LA.
You say, I want to fly to Sydney
and visit my buddy in Sydney.
So you buy a ticket
and you fly to Sydney.
Very soon those airplanes
will belong to the Ubuntu
communities in any case.
And they're not going to fly
using jet engine propulsion
technologies.
We are going to use much
better technology, right?
And you fly to
Sydney and you arrive
and you say, hey, I'll come live
in this town in this community
and the same happens.
Welcome.
Choose a place.
And if there isn't a
place, they probably
will have a variety of
accommodation for travelers,
people that are just traveling
through until they build you
a house of your own choice,
wherever you want it,
because that's what the
builders and the planners do.
They build houses for people.
That's their contribution
to the community,
using the materials that
are created by the material
designers and builders
that are better
than the bricks and the
building materials we use today.
So you just see the knock-on
effect on every level.
And you now have access
to international currency.
We've created a local currency
and an international currency
that cannot be collapsed
by the banking families.
They cannot touch it.
They cannot access it.
They cannot close your account
like what they've just done
to me.
And we've solved a huge, huge
problem, all the problems.
We've become immune
to their control
by creating a new alternative.
This is what I've
been saying all along.
We simply create
a new alternative.
We don't have to confront
them, fight them, oppose them,
just bypass them.
And what we've done is we've
left these global elite
in charge of nobody,
in control of nothing.
They'll be sitting and--
let's actually carry on,
because now this takes us
to the current industry,
manufacturing, and mining.
So are we still going to
be doing this, mining coal,
creating huge destruction
of our planet?
Of course not.
Why would we ever possibly
want to mine coal?
It makes no sense.
So all this destructive
mining activity-- and mining
is probably the most
destructive activity
that we engage on this planet.
It poisons our soil.
It poisons the water.
It destroys the
surface of the planet
and leaves scars behind
that take centuries to fix.
But because we're going to
have really smart people that
know how to fix
this thing, they're
going to fix it a lot
quicker, because we can.
No longer mining,
especially coal.
Why would we want to mine
coal to burn the coal
to boil the water
to create steam
that drives the hydroturbines
that gives us electricity?
I mean that's-- really?
We've got free electricity
coming out of our ears,
or we've got hydroturbines
in the rivers
if you really need to
use existing technology,
tried and tested technology,
we don't need to burn coal.
So that stops, and the
desecration of our planet
will stop.
So we no longer have this.
And in fact, I would like
to suggest that all mining
activity is going to stop.
We don't need to mine anything,
because our scientists
and our inventors
will be inventing
new kinds of materials that
are infinitely stronger, more
durable, and
biodegradable, and lighter,
and are actually
created and made
for a specific purpose
that actually serves
that purpose for which it needs
to be applied and implemented.
Especially gold, I mean, the
whole thing with gold, right?
We're not even going
to go into that,
because the history of gold is
that murky origins of humankind
and our obsession with
gold and why gold even ever
became this obsession, because
it doesn't make any sense.
And obviously, the
pollution of our planet
comes to an immediate stop.
All this changes virtually
overnight once we remove money
from the system.
Our needs for materials changes
completely, like I said.
What materials do we need?
We will create whatever
materials we need,
because we no longer have
to sell stuff, remember.
Think about everything
that we go and buy today.
It's packaged in these
boxes with-- you open it up
and there's polystyrene and
plastic and more plastic
and booklets with
instructions and just
the waste and the pollution
we create is insane.
None of that will
happen anymore.
You don't have to create
those materials for packaging
purposes so we can build the
crap that we can try and sell
to somebody, put it
in shiny metal boxes
and put it on the
shelf somewhere so
some unsuspecting schmuck
walks into the shop
and sees it and says,
wow, that looks nice.
I want to buy that.
Really?
No.
All of that flies
right out the window.
I haven't done this
for a while, actually,
so here's an
interesting example.
So let's look at
nail clippers, right?
We all need nail clippers.
So how many nail clippers do
we need in the world, right?
Everybody bloody chemist
and travel shop you get to
has got hundreds of
nail clippers hanging,
and nail files, which
is such a bloody waste.
It's insane.
How many nail clippers
do we need, right?
So let's just make
the best nail clippers
that we can design and make.
And let's make three
types or a dozen types
and make as many nail
clippers as there
are people so everybody's got
a bloody set of nail clippers.
And then we don't need to hang
them in shops so that they hang
there for some unsuspecting
person that suddenly
decides they need a new pair
of nail clippers, or computers.
I think we've
mentioned this before.
How long will it take a
bunch of computer geeks
to build a supercomputer
in one of our communities
when they have the best
facilities, the best
technology available to them.
And anything they need or
any components they need
will be made and
produced for them
to make that supercomputer.
I think that those
supercomputers already exist,
right?
And even if they don't exist,
because they haven't had access
to the really good
components, it
might take them six months
or 12 months, whatever it is,
but very quickly we'll
have a supercomputer that
is going to be 1,000 years ahead
of the current computers we
have today.
So how many people
around the world
do you think are going to want
that supercomputer once we've
created it in our little town?
Can you imagine
the amount of money
that our town will make in
that first interim phase?
Everybody is going to
want our supercomputer.
The amount of money coming into
our little town will be insane.
We can't begin to try and
project how much money we're
going to be making.
But very quickly,
that money is going
to be absolutely
useless as we transition
from a money-driven society to
where we no longer need money
and we start sharing
all this abundance
with all the other communities.
This is very important
because, remember,
there are places in the desert
that can't grow tropical fruit
or places up on the mountains
and vice versa.
So you can't always grow
things and do things
in certain parts of the world.
This is why we have to create
abundance in our community
so we can share it with those
that can't have or grow what it
is that we have and we
can create in our towns
or grow in our towns.
That's where the abundance
thing becomes very important,
for future sharing of this
abundance, not selling.
So our needs for materials
will change dramatically.
You know, graphene is one of the
most spoken-about inventions.
It's this very, very thin
carbon-based substance.
It's now the strongest and the
thinnest substance available.
But now it's under patent.
Somebody owns the
rights to make it.
So no, no one's going to
own the right to make it.
And everyone will have
access to graphene and blend
graphene with hemp or
whatever else, or silica,
and make the best,
strongest substances that
conduct light or sound
or stores energy,
technology that is driven by
materials that are specifically
made for the technology,
which today we can't afford.
There's not enough money,
not financially viable.
And this is how we keep
tripping ourselves up.
So the final consideration
in this sort of thought
is in this world of abundance
where everything is possible,
everything is
available, everything
is created for whatever
it is we need to do,
everything we do and make
is recyclable, renewable,
and reusable.
There is no
pollution whatsoever.
I find this interesting,
because this takes me back
to the research of the
ancient civilizations,
those guys that
used really advanced
silicon-based technology
that they left behind
in the tools and artifacts
that we've been finding.
They didn't use money.
And this is why
it's very difficult
to find evidence of
those civilizations,
of those people,
because if you don't
use money and everything
is recyclable, renewable,
and reusable, you don't
leave behind the mess
that we leave behind.
So to find evidence of
advanced civilizations
in the past becomes
very difficult.
We're going to leave
behind very little trace
and evidence of what
we do, because we
keep our place clean.
We don't create pollution.
And that's when we
start really living
in harmony with our own planet
and environment on every level.
And that's what
this is all about,
moving into that higher
state of consciousness,
living in harmony not only with
the people in our communities,
but with our environment
and our planet,
Gaia as a whole, everything
in coherent, resonant harmony.
And that is the
state that we need
to achieve as
quickly as possible,
because the state of
dissonance and disease
destroying our planet,
destroying ourselves
in the process, we've hit
the wall, as Truman did
in The Truman Show, when
he physically in his boat--
finally, remember he
overcomes-- he finally gets out
of the slave mentality and they
try everything to hold him back
with the water and the waves and
eventually he gets through it
and his boat literally
hits the wall.
And we use that expression,
right, I've hit the wall?
So I think humanity has
finally hit the wall.
And this is the
moment that we choose
to take another direction.
And I find this really,
really the most exciting thing
I could possibly think of.
And I trust many people feel
the same way around the world.
And this is why this philosophy
is growing on its own.
I don't have to try and
sell this to anybody.
And the reason you're here is
because you resonate with it
already.
And now hopefully you
understand how simple
it is to implement this, how
we've been lied to, how we've
been tripping ourselves
up thinking that it's
going to be very difficult
and very hard to get out
of this system.
No.
It's a lot easier
and a lot simpler
to get out of this system.
So we've come out of
this one-hour episode.
And we're going to go into the
final hour in the next episode.
But before we do, are they
any comments or questions
anybody wants to raise?
>>My name is Brooks Remaley, and
I'm from the Dallas-Fort Worth
area.
Michael, I would like
to say, first of all,
thank you for the
opportunity to spend a couple
days with like-minded people.
I've made some
fantastic friends here.
This has just been an
amazing experience,
so thank you very much.
>>Thank you for being here.
>>So being from the
Dallas-Fort Worth area,
I would like to eventually
maybe pass this on to some folks
there.
And my question is,
do you have sort
of an outline or some
support for somebody who
wants to do what you're doing?
I know you can't duplicate
yourself and be everywhere
all the time.
But I want to do
this in my community
and inform people of this idea.
So my question is, do you
have something in place
where you have like
support and you
could guide me through doing
the same thing in my community?
Thank you.
>>Yeah.
Thanks for that
question, Brooks.
I do obviously need to
multiply this philosophy
as widely as possible.
I can't be in all places all the
time, so I need as many people
out there to take this knowledge
on this kind of platform
in this way as
widely as possible.
So the idea is that the
book is an instrument.
It's a lot easier to give
somebody the book to read.
That's why I wrote
the book instead of me
having to sit and
talk people through it
for hours and hours on end,
say, well, read this book.
And that's a good starter,
a good starting point
for people to get into this
idea of thinking, oh, wow, OK.
Give them the background,
easy to read and digest.
But then it goes further.
Then it goes onto a one-to-one
and a personal contact
with people doing these kind
of meetings and meetup groups,
so the intention is that we
have an easy-to-watch shorter
version of kind of a workshop,
either on DVD or a flash drive
or downloadable from the
website that anybody anywhere
can get so it's
the same workshop
so people don't fill
in their own ideas.
What I've found is
that often people
get a sniff of this idea, they
read a little bit about it,
and they get the wrong
end of the stick.
And they run out there
and they try and promote
this Ubuntu philosophy,
but they're actually
promoting a very
different kind of idea
and then they get it all
wrong and they confuse people.
So what we've got to be
very careful about here
is that we stick to the
knitting and we keep
promoting the same philosophy.
So I think what I need to do is
create like a DVD or something
that we can make available
or download so it's
the same presentation
that everybody
gets the same steps
and the guidelines.
So everybody can then
take that and say, OK,
come to my house for a meeting.
We have a little group
gathering, talk about a world
without money.
You put this onto
your computer or TV.
You show everybody the DVD, so
everybody shows the same thing
and they don't put their
own ideology into it,
because that's what I
found was a mistake that I
made some time ago.
And it backfired
on us quite badly,
where I just assumed
people would get it.
But no.
It takes a little bit
of training and guidance
to really get to the core
understanding of this.
And we've been through two
days here in the studio,
and I think finally
now you have it
and it's a lot easier for you to
go and share this with others.
But if you just spend an
hour or two with people,
often that's not enough.
So it's going to have to be
that focused workshop that's
available to everyone, that is
the same ethos and philosophy,
without diluting it.
But also what I
must say is that we
have a database on
the Ubuntu website
from people all over the world.
And the plan of
action is actually--
and again, because we have
so little support in admin
and IT support, it's been tough.
It's been tough going.
Some people think that we've
got this big organization
doing all this stuff.
No.
It's me.
I'm doing all this stuff.
I have to answer all the emails.
I have to deal with
all the people,
either they're happy
or unhappy with me.
And Louisa's been
supporting in many ways,
but she's sort of going on a
whole different energetic part
of this, not the hands-on
political community project
philosophy.
She's moving away into the
whole energetic shamanic working
of this philosophy, which is a
very important aspect of this.
We're holding the space
as best as we can.
But what I do have is
I've got a database
of people in every country.
In the USA we've
got a huge database
of people that have signed up.
So the idea is to connect
all those people together
and those in communities
in close proximity
start meeting up physically, not
just virtually on the internet.
That's not good enough.
You've got to actually share
physical energy with each other
and get to know each other
and share this knowledge
face to face where you can
actually hug the person
and know that it's a
real living, breathing
human being and
not a cyberbuddy.
That's been part of the
problem is that we can't just
depend on the internet
and Facebook and emails
to connect people
around the world.
It has to be physical contact.
I've just had that
experience in Austria.
I was in a
mind-blowing experience
where I came from
Turkey to Austria
and Gernot Gauper, who's setting
up the Ubuntu party in Austria
now, just set up three
meetings in Vienna,
in Graz, and in
Salzburg, where I
walked into rooms filled with
more than 100 people that just
want to embrace this
philosophy and start the Ubuntu
movement in Austria.
It blew my mind.
And that's the energetic
exchange that you need,
where people gather
with the same intent,
the same-- the intention
is already there.
So this is what I'd like to
help share and facilitate
by putting the people in
contact in their communities
so you can really then exchange
details and start meeting up.
And I will do the best I can
to come and meet these groups
and have more of these kind
of face-to-face meetings
to maybe keep things
focused, because I've
seen how quickly things can
go off track very easily.
Let's wind up this episode.
It's the second-last
episode, and I look forward
to the final episode, where
we really unravel and answer
all the questions.
And this is the
really exciting part,
where I'd like each
and every one of you
to think about the
questions, the most difficult
and what you think is the most
insurmountable problem that we
may have in this world without
money and the communities.
And before we leave here and
finish these eight episodes,
I want us all to be
able to those questions
and know that we've
totally internalized this,
because until you've
internalized this
and you feel totally
comfortable with facing
any kind of question
from anyone in the world,
you have not yet embraced this.
You must not have any
fear from anyone thinking
that, oh, I hope he doesn't
ask me a difficult question.
Then you haven't
embraced it yet.
And this is where I'd like us
to leave with by the time we
finish these eight episodes,
knowing, being absolutely
confident no matter what
anyone throws at you,
that you feel in a position
of self-empowerment,
self-knowledge,
and self-resonating
with the simple philosophy that
you feel capable of handling
any kind of question.
So thanks for being
in the studio.
Thanks for being here
for this whole exercise.
We'll pick this up
in the final episode.
Thanks.
[APPLAUSE]
Thanks for watching.
I'm Michael Tellinger.